MONGODB - INTERVIEW QUESTIONS

Q1. What are SQL Databases? What are some companies that use Mongo, what type of applications are these?

        SQL is Structured Query Language, which is a computer language for storing, manipulating and retrieving
        data stored in a relational database.
        SQL is the standard language for Relational Database System. All the Relational Database Management
        Systems (RDMS) like MySQL, MS Access, Oracle, Sybase, Informix, Postgres and SQL Server use SQL as
        their standard database language.
        Also, they are using different dialects, such as:
        -MS SQL Server using T-SQL,
        -Oracle using PL/SQL,
        -MS Access version of SQL is called JET SQL (native format) etc.

        Some Real-World Companies That Use MongoDB 
        -eBay
            eBay is a multinational company that provides a platform for the customer to customer sales. It is
        currently running a large number of projects in MongoDB like merchandising categorization, cloud management,
        metadata storage, search suggestions.

        -MetLife
            MetLife is a leading company in employee benefit programs, annuities, and insurance. There are more than
        90 million customers in the Middle East, Europe, Aisa, Latin America, Japan, United States. MetLife is using 
        MongoDB for its advanced customer service application called The Wall.
            This application provides a combined view of transactions, policy details, and other details of MetLife
        Customers. It looks like Wall of Facebook, which takes data from 70 legacy systems and merges it into a single
        record. It stores 24 Terabytes of data and runs across six servers in two data centers. MetLife is working on a
        series of Big Data projects where MongoDB-based applications are part of it.

        -Shutterfly
                Shutterfly is one of the most popular online photo sharing, and it is using MongoDB to manage and store 
            more than 6 billion images, which has a transaction rate of up to 10,000 operations per second. Shutterfly 
            earlier used Oracle but later transitioned to MongoDB.
                Shutterfly company realized that moving to a non-relational database will help them to increase their
            scalability, performance, and productivity of the programmer.
                Shutterfly did consider many other alternate database systems like BerkeleyDB, CouchDB, or Cassandra. The
            company has confirmed that they are pleased with their decision of transitioning from Oracle to MongoDB.

        -Aadhar
            It is India’s Unique Identification project, which has the biggest biometrics database in the world. Aadhar 
            Project is using MongoDB as its database to store a massive amount of demographic and biometric data of more
            than 1.2 billion Indians. MongoDB is being used for the storage of images in the Aadhar project.

        -EA
            Ea is an online multiplayer game that is using MongoDB Database for its game called FIFA Online 3. MongoDB can 
            easily handle complicated things that need synchronization with each other entirely.

        Practical MongoDB Use Cases
            Some documents are called MongoDB Use Case documents, which will help in introducing the operations used, designs, 
        and patterns in MongoDB application development. Data Modeling Strategies and Application Design will be highlighted 
        in these documents. If you are a beginner and would like to learn more, check out our digital marketing training from 
        top universities. 
            It will also give some special attention to scaling, sharding, performance, and indexing. Three case studies will be 
        described, which are: content management case studies, product data management case studies, and operational
        intelligence case studies.

Q2. What are NoSQL Databases? What are some companies that use Mongo, what type of applications are these?

Q3. What is the difference between SQL and NoSQL databases?

Q4. What are some features of MongoDB?

Q5. What are aggregate queries?

Q6. What are pipelines in aggregation?

Q7. How do you do aggregate queries?

Q8. How can you group by a particular value in MongoDB?

Q9. How can you paginate on MongoDB?

Q10. How can you sort in MongoDB?

Q11. What is indexing in MongoDB? Why do we need to use indexing? What are pros and cons for indexing?

Q12. Write the query for indexing a field in MongoDB?

Q13. What is the improvement in performance in MongoDB?

Q14. What is the data structure used for indexing?

Q15. Are values sorted in indexes?

Q16. What are Replica Sets in MongoDB?

Q17. Explain the structure of ObjectID in MongoDB.

Q18. By default, which index is created by MongoDB for every collection?

Q19. In which format MongoDB represents document structure?

Q20. What is the limitation of a document in MongoDB?

Q21. What is the difference between MongoDB and Redis database?

Q22. How can you add references between multiple collections?

Q23. What are lookup in aggregation for MongoDB?

Q24. What are graph lookups?

Q25. What is the alternative for lookups for SQL?

Q26. How can you do one to many relation in MongoDB?

Q27. How can you do many to many relation in MongoDB?

Q28. How can you do one to zillion relation in MongoDB?