Q.1 How is redux different from context API?
    Context API : Built-in tool that ships with React
    Redux : Additional installation Required, driving up the final bundle size

    Context API : Requires minimal Setup
    Redux : Requires extensive setup to integrate it with a React Application

    Context API : Specifically designed for static data, that is not often refreshed or updated
    Redux : Works like a charm with both static and dynamic data

    Context API : Adding new contexts requires creation from scratch
    Redux : Easily extendible due to the ease of adding new data/actions after the initial setup

    Context API : Debugging can be hard in highly nested React Component Structure even with Dev Tool
    Redux : Incredibly powerful Redux Dev Tools to ease debugging

    Context API : UI logic and State Management Logic are in the same component
    Redux : Better code organization with separate UI logic and State Management Logic

Q.2 What does useSelector do?
    useSelector is a function that takes the current state as an argument and returns whatever data you want from it
    and it allows you to store the return values inside a variable within the scope of you functional components instead
    of passing down as props.

    useSelector() hook is equivalent of mapStateToProps

Q.3 What is immutability?

Q.4 Why do we need to spread the state in redux?

Q.5 What does Object.freeze() do?

Q.6 Why is immutability required by Redux?

Q.7 How does Redux use shallow equality checking?

Q.8 How well does Redux “scale” in terms of performance and architecture?

Q.9 How does Redux compare to the React Context API?

FAQs of redux https://redux.js.org/faq/

Q.1 What is JSX?

Q.2 What is Conditional Rendering?

Q.3 What is tree-shaking ?

Q.4 What are some features of using webpack?

Q.5 What are Controlled and Uncontrolled components?

Q.6 What is flux architecture?

Q.7 What does React.useCallback do?

Q.8 What does React.memo mean?

Q.9 What is Higher-order Components?

Q.10 What are keys in React? Why are keys important?

Q.11 What is reconciliation?

Q.12 Explain life cycle diagram with hooks?

Q.13 What does the cleanup function in useEffect do?

Q.14 What are the rules of hooks?

Q.15 Explain redux to a 5 year old (ELI5) ?