Q1.Explain what is Loose Coupling and Tight Coupling. Also show the
examples of code having tight coupling and how you can make it loosely
coupled?

Coupling refers to the usage of an object by another object. It can also
be termed as collaboration. This dependency of one object on another object
to get some task done can be classified into the following two types −
>Tight coupling - When an object creates the object to be used, then it is
a tight coupling situation. As the main object creates the object itself,
this object can not be changed from outside world easily marked it as tightly
coupled objects.
>Loose coupling - When an object gets the object to be used from the outside,
then it is a loose coupling situation. As the main object is merely using the
object, this object can be changed from the outside world easily marked it as
loosely coupled objects.

Q2.What is High cohesion and how is it helpful?

A highly cohesive class is one that only comprise responsibilities which belong
together. A class ideally has a single responsibility.

High cohesion is a software engineering concept that refers to how closely all
the routines in a class, or all the code in a routine, support a central purpose.
Classes that contain strongly related functionalities are described as having high
cohesion; the heuristic goal is to make cohesion as high as possible.

Q3 State KISS and YAGNI principle.

Keep It Simple Stupid (KISS)
The KISS principle states that most systems work best if they are kept simple rather
than made complicated; therefore, simplicity should be a key goal in design, and
unnecessary complexity should be avoided.

Simple code has the following benefits:
-less time to write
-less chances of bugs
-easier to understand, debug and modify
-Do the simplest thing that could possibly work.

You Aren't Gonna Need It (YAGNI)
It is an Extreme Programming (XP) practice which states: "Always implement things when
you actually need them, never when you just foresee that you need them."

Even if you're totally, totally, totally sure that you'll need a feature, later on,
don't implement it now. Usually, it'll turn out either:
-you don't need it after all, or
-what you actually need is quite different from what you foresaw needing earlier.
-This doesn't mean you should avoid building flexibility into your code. It mean
 you shouldn't overengineer something based on what you think you might need later on.

There are two main reasons to practice YAGNI:
-You save time because you avoid writing code that you turn out not to need.
-Your code is better because you avoid polluting it with 'guesses' that turn out to
be more or less wrong but stick around anyway.