Assignment OS101 (Networking and Security)

Q.1 Explain what HTTP is and how it is Unidirectional?
        Hypertext Transfer Protocol, HTTP is the protocol used to transfer data
    over the web. It is part of the Internet protocol suite and defines commands and
    services used for transmitting webpage data. HTTP uses a server-client model. A client,
    for example, may be a home computer, laptop, or mobile device.

        The HTTP server is typically a web host running web server software, such as
    Apacheor IIS. When you access a website, your browser sends a request to the
    corresponding web server and it responds with an HTTP status code. If the URL is valid
    and the connection is granted, the server will send your browser the webpage and
    related files.

    Some common HTTP status codes include:
    1. 200 - successful request (the webpage exists)
    2. 401 - unauthorized request (authorization required)
    3. 500 - internal server error (often caused by an incorrect server configuration)

Q.2 What is IPv4 and IPv6?
    - IPv4 is a version 4 of IP. It is a current version and the most commonly used IP address.
      It is a 32-bit address written in four numbers separated by 'dot', i.e., periods. This
      address is unique for each device.

    - IPv6 is the next generation of IP addresses. The main difference between IPv4 and
      IPv6 is the address size of IP addresses. The IPv4 is a 32-bit address, whereas IPv6 is
      a 128-bit hexadecimal address.IPv6 provides a large address space, and it contains a
      simple header as compared to IPv4.

Q.3 What is DNS?
    The Domain Name System (DNS) is the phonebook of the Internet. Humans access
    information online through domain names, like nytimes.com or espn.com. Web
    browsers interact through Internet Protocol (IP) addresses. DNS translates domain
    names to IP addresses so browsers can load Internet resources.

Q.4 Explain what CDN is ?
    CDN (Computer Delivery Network) is a system of distributed servers that deliver web
    pages and other web content to a user based on the geographic locations of the
    user, the origin of the webpage and a content delivery server.

Q.5 What is a DeadLock?
    Deadlock is a situation where a set of processes are blocked because each process is holding
    a resource and waiting for another resource acquired by some other process.

    Deadlock can arise if the following four conditions hold simultaneously (Necessary Conditions) 
    -Mutual Exclusion:
        Two or more resources are non-shareable (Only one process can use at a time) 
    -Hold and Wait:
        A process is holding at least one resource and waiting for resources. 
    -No Preemption:
        A resource cannot be taken from a process unless the process releases the resource. 
    -Circular Wait:
        A set of processes are waiting for each other in circular form. 

    Methods for handling deadlock:
    1.  Deadlock prevention or avoidance: The idea is to not let the system into a deadlock state. 
        One can zoom into each category individually, Prevention is done by negating one of above
        mentioned necessary conditions for deadlock. 
        Avoidance is kind of futuristic in nature. By using strategy of “Avoidance”, we have to make
        an assumption. We need to ensure that all information about resources which process will need
        are known to us prior to execution of the process. We use Banker’s algorithm in order to
        avoid deadlock. 

    2.  Deadlock detection and recovery: Let deadlock occur, then do preemption to handle it once
        occurred. 

    3.  Ignore the problem altogether: If deadlock is very rare, then let it happen and reboot the
        system. This is the approach that both Windows and UNIX take. 