Networking, Distributed Systems and Security

Q1.Explain 3-Tier Architecture.
The 3-tier architecture contains one more layer between the client and the server. In this architecture, there is no
direct communication between client and server. Mainly, the 3-tier is used for large applications on the web. The
features of 3-tier architecture are data backup, recovery, security, and concurrency control.

Layers
    The 3-tier architecture consists of the three layers as follows −
    a.  Presentation layer − This layer is also called the client layer. The front-end layer consists of a user interface.
        The main purpose is to communicate with the application layer.
    b.  Application layer − This layer is also called the business logic layer. It acts as a middle layer between the client
        and the database server which are used to exchange partially processed data.
    c.  Database layer − In this layer the data or information is stored. This layer performs operations like insert, update
        and delete to connect with the database.


Q2. Explain Basic Terminologies
1 Replication
2 Consistency
3 Eventual consistency
4 Availability
5 Sharding


Q3.What is CAP Theorem?
 The Consistency, Availability & Partition Tolerance (CAP) Theorem is comprised of three components as they relate to
    distributed data stores:
        a.  Consistency- receive the most recent write or an error.
        b.  Availability- contain data, but it might not be the most recent.
        c.  Partition tolerance- The system continues to operate despite network failures

    Ihe CAP theorem maintains that when a distributed database experiences a network failure, you can provide either
    consistency or availability.

    In the theorem, partition tolerance is a must. The assumption is that the system operates on a distributed data store so
    the system, by nature, operates with network partitions. Network failures will happen, so to offer any kind of reliable
    service, partition tolerance is necessary.

    That leaves a decision between the other two, C and A. When a network failure happens, one can choose to guarantee
    consistency or availability:
        a.  High consistency comes at the cost of lower availability.
        b.  High availability comes at the cost of lower consistency.
        c.  Consistency in CAP is different than that of ACID. Consistency in CAP means having the most up-to-date
            information. (ACID refers to a different database event. In ACID, consistency means any new transaction
            to the database won’t corrupt the database.)

Q4. What are Public and Private Keys? How are they used in Cryptography?

Private Key
        The private key is used in both encryption as well as decryption. This key is shared between the sender and receiver of
    the encrypted sensitive information. The private key is also called "symmetric" because it is shared by both parties.
    Private key cryptography is faster than public-key cryptography mechanism.
        A private key is generally a lengthy, non-guessable sequence of bits created randomly or pseudo-randomly. The complexity
    and length of a private key define how easy it is for an attacker to carry out a bruteforce attack, in which they test
    out several keys until they find the appropriate one.

Public Key
        Asymmetric cryptography, often known as public-key cryptography, is a type of encryption that employs pairs of keys.
    A public key (which may be known to others) and a private key (which may not be known to anyone except the owner) make
    up each pair. Cryptographic techniques based on mathematical problems known as one-way functions are used to generate
    such key pairs. A private key should be kept secret for effective security; a public key can be freely circulated
    without jeopardizing security.
        In such a system, anybody can encrypt a message using the intended receiver's public key, but only the receiver's
    private key can decode the message. This allows a server application to produce a cryptographic key for compatible
    symmetric-key cryptography, then encrypt that freshly generated symmetric key using a client's freely disclosed public
    key.
        A public-key encryption system's most apparent application is for encrypting communication to guarantee secrecy – a
    message that a sender encrypts using the recipient's public key and can only be decoded by the recipient's associated
    private key.

Cryptography
    Cryptography is technique of securing information and communications through use of codes so that only those person for
whom the information is intended can understand it and process it. Thus preventing unauthorized access to information.
The prefix “crypt” means “hidden” and suffix graphy means “writing”.
    In Cryptography the techniques which are use to protect information are obtained from mathematical concepts and a set
of rule based calculations known as algorithms to convert messages in ways that make it hard to decode it. These
algorithms are used for cryptographic key generation, digital signing, verification to protect data privacy, web
browsing on internet and to protect confidential transactions such as credit card and debit card transactions.

Techniques used For Cryptography:
    In today’s age of computers cryptography is often associated with the process where an ordinary plain text is
converted to cipher text which is the text made such that intended receiver of the text can only decode it and hence
this process is known as encryption. The process of conversion of cipher text to plain text this is known as decryption.

Features Of Cryptography are as follows:

Confidentiality:
    Information can only be accessed by the person for whom it is intended and no other person except him can access it.
Integrity:
    Information cannot be modified in storage or transition between sender and intended receiver without any addition
    to information being detected.
Non-repudiation:
    The creator/sender of information cannot deny his intention to send information at later stage.
Authentication:
    The identities of sender and receiver are confirmed. As well as destination/origin of information is confirmed.
Types Of Cryptography:
In general there are three types Of cryptography:

Symmetric Key Cryptography:
    It is an encryption system where the sender and receiver of message use a single common key to encrypt and
    decrypt messages. Symmetric Key Systems are faster and simpler but the problem is that sender and receiver have
    to somehow exchange key in a secure manner. The most popular symmetric key cryptography system is Data
    Encryption System(DES).
Hash Functions:
    There is no usage of any key in this algorithm. A hash value with fixed length is calculated as per the plain
    text which makes it impossible for contents of plain text to be recovered. Many operating systems use hash
    functions to encrypt passwords.
Asymmetric Key Cryptography:
    Under this system a pair of keys is used to encrypt and decrypt information. A public key is used for
    encryption and a private key is used for decryption. Public key and Private Key are different. Even if
    the public key is known by everyone the intended receiver can only decode it because he alone knows
    the private key.


