Q1 What is an Operating System and what all functions are provided by
Operating System?

An Operating System is referred to the system software via which
applications in a computer take place. It oversees the computer hardware
along with system resources. An Operating System(OS) also provides the
tools needed by applications for operation. It acts as an intermediary
between the user and their computer hardware, as its purpose is to
control the operation of a computer system.

The main task an operating system carries out is the allocation of resources
and services, such as allocation of: memory, devices, processors and
information. The operating system also includes programs to manage these
resources, such as a traffic controller, a scheduler, memory management
module, I/O programs, and a file system

Important functions of an operating System:

-Security :
    The operating system uses password protection to protect user data and 
    similar other techniques. it also prevents unauthorized access to programs 
    and user data.

-Control over system performance :
    Monitors overall system health to help improve performance. records the 
    response time between service requests and system response to have a
    complete view of the system health. This can help improve performance by
    providing important information needed to troubleshoot problems.

-Job accounting :
    Operating system Keeps track of time and resources used by various tasks
    and users, this information can be used to track resource usage for a 
    particular user or group of user.

-Error detecting aids :
    Operating system constantly monitors the system to detect errors and
    avoid the malfunctioning of computer system.

-Coordination between other software and users :
    Operating systems also coordinate and assign interpreters, compilers, 
    assemblers and other software to the various users of the computer systems.

-Memory Management :
    The operating system manages the Primary Memory or Main Memory. Main
    memory is made up of a large array of bytes or words where each byte or
    word is assigned a certain address. Main memory is a fast storage and 
    it can be accessed directly by the CPU. For a program to be executed,
    it should be first loaded in the main memory. An Operating System performs
    the following activities for memory management:It keeps tracks of primary
    memory, i.e., which bytes of memory are used by which user program. The
    memory addresses that have already been allocated and the memory addresses
    of the memory that has not yet been used. In multi programming, the OS decides
    the order in which process are granted access to memory, and for how long.
    It Allocates the memory to a process when the process requests it and deallocates
    the memory when the process has terminated or is performing an I/O operation.

-Processor Management :
    In a multi programming environment, the OS decides the order in which processes
    have access to the processor, and how much processing time each process has.
    This function of OS is called process scheduling. An Operating System performs
    the following activities for processor management.Keeps tracks of the status of
    processes. The program which perform this task is known as traffic controller.
    Allocates the CPU that is processor to a process. De-allocates processor when 
    a process is no more required.

-Device Management :
    An OS manages device communication via their respective drivers. It performs
    the following activities for device management. Keeps tracks of all devices
    connected to system. designates a program responsible for every device known
    as the Input/Output controller. Decides which process gets access to a certain
    device and for how long. Allocates devices in an effective and efficient way.
    De-allocates devices when they are no longer required.

-File Management :
    A file system is organized into directories for efficient or easy navigation and
    usage. These directories may contain other directories and other files. An
    Operating System carries out the following file management activities. It keeps
    track of where information is stored, user access settings and status of every file
    and more… These facilities are collectively known as the file system.

Q2 What is a process? Explain Priority Scheduling and Round
Robin(RR) Scheduling algorithms.

    Priority scheduling algorithm executes the processes depending upon their priority.
Each process is allocated a priority and the process with the highest priority is
executed first. Priorities can be defined internally as well as externally. Internal
priorities are decided by the system depending upon the number of resources required,
time needed etc. whereas external priorities are based upon the time in which the work
is needed or the amount being paid for the work done or the importance of process.
Priority scheduling can be preemptive or non- preemptive.

    Round-Robin (RR) Scheduling Algorithm is particularly designed for time sharing systems.
The processes are put into the ready queue which is a circular queue in this case.
In this case a small unit of time known as time quantum is defined. The algorithm selects
the first process from the queue and executes it for the time defined by the time quantum.
If the process has burst time less than the time quantum then the CPU executes the next
process but if it has burst time higher than the time quantum then the process is
interrupted and next process is executed for same time quantum. If a process is interrupted
then a context switch happens and the process is put back at the tail of the queue. It is
preemptive in nature.

This algorithm mainly depends on the time quantum. Very large time quantum makes RR same
as the FCFS while a very small time quantum will lead to the overhead as context switch 
will happen again and again after very small intervals.

The major advantage of this algorithm is that all processes get executed one after the
other which does not lead to starvation of processes or waiting by process for quite
long time to get executed.


Q3 List some basic features of Linux Operating System.

Linux is an operating system that can match the Windows Operating System Linux is an
open-source program that you can use freely without any license. Furthermore, it functions
as the Windows Operating system. There are many amazing features of Linux Operating System
you should know. Like I said earlier Linux is an open-source code operating system you can
use for free.

Features of Linux Operating System:
    -Portability
    Linux software works in diverse types of hardware without any deviation. You can also
    install the Linux operating system on any hardware without any fear of it being
    incompatible. Whether on a high- or low-end hardware it works the same way.

    -Linux OS is Open-source
    The source code is open to the public to use and modify as they see fit and you can use
    it freely. Many developers work together in groups to make Linux stronger and better.
    Furthermore, Developers keep upgrading the system nonstop.

    -Accepts many users
    One of the features of Linux Operating System is that it allows many individuals to
    use the operating system, random access memory, and applications at the same time without
    any problems.

    -Many programs run simultaneously
    You can also run many program applications on the Linux operating system at the same time.
    This is one of the great features of Linux Operating System.

    -Linux Operating System has ordered file system
    You have ordered filling system in the Linux operating system. All the user files and
    system files are arranged in order.

    -Shell
    Linus system has vital programs that you can use to issue commands to the operating
    system and the system will execute them flawlessly. In addition, you can instruct it
    to carry out different types of command and the application programs will carry them
    out effectively.

    -Protection
    You can use authentication to safeguard your security. Linux Operating System provides
    you with a password before you can gain access to some vital files. Furthermore, you
    can also encrypt your data when you use Linux.

    -Graphical User Interface (GUI)
    You can use its Graphical User Interface (GUI) features just like the Windows
    operating system. Similarly, you can install the packages and the system graphics
    will start functioning exactly like Windows. These are some unique features of the
    Linux operating system.

    -Modify your keyboards into foreign languages
    It is easy to use Linux all over the world because it comes in different languages.
    Hence, you can modify your keyboard into the language of your choice. Modifying your
    keyboard into other languages is one of the features of Linux Operating System.

    -Real CD shipped to all users that want it
    Linux system ships with real CD or USB that you can use to run the operating system.
    Depending on your specific need and despite where you live in the world, you will
    receive it.

    -It supports commands
    You can install or download an application by issuing a command to Linux shell.

Q4 What is Kernel in Linux ?

The Linux® kernel is the main component of a Linux operating system (OS) and is the core
interface between a computer’s hardware and its processes. It communicates between the 2,
managing resources as efficiently as possible.

The kernel is so named because—like a seed inside a hard shell—it exists within the OS
and controls all the major functions of the hardware, whether it’s a phone, laptop,
server, or any other kind of computer.

The kernel has 4 jobs:
    -Memory management: Keep track of how much memory is used to store what, and where
    -Process management: Determine which processes can use the central processing unit (CPU),
    when, and for how long
    -Device drivers: Act as mediator/interpreter between the hardware and processes
    -System calls and security: Receive requests for service from the processes

The kernel, if implemented properly, is invisible to the user, working in its own little world
known as kernel space, where it allocates memory and keeps track of where everything is stored.
What the user sees—like web browsers and files—are known as the user space. These applications
interact with the kernel through a system call interface (SCI).






